hey everybody its lon side but I wanted
to talk today a little bit about
Nintendo and a new program they've
started to try to improve the
relationship between the company and
youtubers like me now the reason why
they're trying to improve the
relationship between Nintendo and
youtubers is that they have been total
jerks to us on YouTube over the last
couple of years because they have been
out there claiming every piece of
Nintendo gameplay footage on youtube as
their own now they certainly may have in
certain circumstances the right to do
that but in the case of product reviews
the kind of videos that I do in a lot of
you watching do they don't really have
the right to do that under fair use and
us copyright law an evaluation of a
copyrighted work is fair use it is not a
copyright violation to display Nintendo
gameplay footage while you're reviewing
the game it's a journalistic thing you
know kind of constitutionally protected
and all that kind of stuff so what
Nintendo has been doing is irrespective
of the use they go out into the
youtube's content ID system identify
that content and then deny that content
creator the ability to monetize that
content and that's pretty bad as it is
on its own but what they've also been
doing is putting ads on that content and
then taking all the revenue away from
the person that created that a
particular review and I don't review
Nintendo products for that reason
because if I do that I run the risk of
basically working for Nintendo in the
course of reviewing their products and I
just don't think that is very fair at
all to me as an independent creator and
a very little recourse in this because
Content ID kind of sits in a layer
outside of us copyright law you can go
and contest it but you really have to
bring it all the way to court in order
to win a win anything against Nintendo
and that certainly wouldn't stop them
from doing it from up for it to other
people and us you know independent
creators we don't make enough money
really to get the high-priced lawyers we
need to kind of do this so when Nintendo
is done now is in an effort to try to
improve their relationship and I think
this is actually more of an insult to us
than anything else it created something
called the Nintendo creators program
which is going to allow you to share
revenue with Nintendo for the videos
that they identify so it's going to
follow the same procedure as it has been
so in other words if I uploaded the
review of you know the new donkey kong
game or something I'd intend to
identifies that footage they claim
it I can then apply to Nintendo not to
YouTube at the Nintendo and ask them
please can I share some revenue with you
sir and if they say yes then they might
give me a sixty percent of that revenue
that I can get back through a paypal
accounts not even through my normal
YouTube process they'll separately
evaluate it so they're going to have
somebody at Nintendo who's going to sit
there and kind of go through all these
video submissions that people give them
decide whether or not the company will
endorse it enough to share the revenue
with that creator and it's still up to
them completely and then if you're so
fortunate to be chosen by Nintendo
they're going to give you sixty percent
of your money back so they're still
going to keep forty percent and they say
they'll have the right to change that
rate arbitrarily how this sounds like a
good deal for anyone is beyond me this
is just insulting to say the least my
biggest concern with this program just
overall is that if it works and it
becomes popular more gaming companies
and other companies might do the same
thing and decide you know what we can
earn money even if they have the fair
use to use our content anyhow and
because of the way Content ID works you
know there's really the YouTube kind of
takes our hands off with it so they
don't often make the determination as to
whether or not something is fair use
they kind of just want to toss it out to
lawyers and the courts in order to make
that final determination before putting
something back on so as an independent
creator you rarely win out of this thing
and if this is the the new course of how
things are going to operate in the
future any company could decide to claim
reviewers independent work as their own
and then keep most of the revenue that
that person should have been earning for
the the journalistic effort they're
contributing to the world and i think
that is wrong so i thought a lot about
this i was thinking about signing up for
it and starting to do some more in
intended reviews but after i slept on
and it kind of went back through the
fine print this isn't good this is
really putting fair use at risk i think
it puts journalism at risk to a certain
degree especially journalists who are on
youtube if you know some investigative
reporter can have their content claimed
and then some of their revenue siphoned
away by the subject of their their piece
I just feel is just completely wrong
Nintendo is wrong for doing this this is
going to be a disaster for them don't
even know how they can have the labor
force to keep up with all this
monitoring and reviewing and everything
I think what they should do is
did what any good company would and
really respect the right of journalists
whether they're a guy in his basement or
a young guy or gal sitting in front of
their TV and streaming something to the
web give us all the right to love your
products share our love of your products
with the world and keep your hands out
of our pockets this is lon Simon thanks
for watching